---
name: Bahome Seraphin Bahome
image: /images/students/bahome-seraphin-bahome.jpeg
currentStudent: false
college: Elmhurst University
---

Bahome Seraphin Bahome is the first-born child in a family of seven children. He is from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and he is a refugee under the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR). He is currently living in the Kakuma Refugee Camp, located in the northern part of Kenya. Bahome has been in the camp for ten years since 2010. He left his country Congo for various reasons, mainly political instability in the country. The situation worsened when the Eastern part of the country where he lived was invaded by Rebels. The rebels did a lot of evil things such as raping women, kidnaping people, killing the innocent Congolese, and attacking the students in schools. This situation forced his family to flee here to Kakuma Refugee Camp. Reaching the camp, he faced many challenges, one of which was the education system of Kenya, which was different from that of Congo, as the language of instruction was English instead of French, like in the DRC. He has overcome this challenge by committing himself to study English. He volunteered to teach mathematics and chemistry at Greenlight Secondary School for one year before joining Elimisha Kakuma. He is very passionate about civil engineering, and he would like to become an engineer in the future so that he can go back to his country and improve the infrastructure. Someone who inspired him is Albert Einstein, who was also a refugee. His commitment and success mean a lot to him, and he would like to be like him one day. One of his most powerful quotes for Bahome is, "the power of our imagination is greater than the power of our intellect." Bahome’s hobbies are writing, reading novels, traveling, and listening to music.
