---
name: Riak Awany Mayar
image: /images/students/riak-awany-mayar.jpeg
currentStudent: true
---

My name is Riak Awany Mayar, I am South Sudanese by nationality, and I am the first in the family of six children. I was born in South Sudan and my family is still currently in South Sudan. I have been living in Kakuma refugee camp since 2012. I had fled from the country because I was forced to join the military as a young teenager to serve as a soldier, but after I escaped and with the help of my father, he organised for me to come to Kakuma Refugee Camp in Kenya for better education. I have been inspired by Nelson Mandela from one of his sayings, that education is the powerful weapon to change the world. I believe through education I can transform my community in terms of offering better services. I have been faced with a lot of challenges; despite education being offered “free” from primary to secondary, there are many associated costs like uniforms, school materials, and books. Lack of support has been a great challenge to me. I'm inspired to major in pharmacy so that I can assist my community from further being affected by a number of curable diseases. In my country, there are numerous diseases that require doctors to supply medications, and yet there are no pharmacies and few healthcare options for citizens; therefore, I’d like to pursue pharmacy to prevent needless deaths. I'm currently teaching mathematics and chemistry in Somali Bantu Secondary School as an ‘incentive’ worker in Kakuma Refugee Camp. I also teach girls during school holidays as the rate of girls finishing primary and secondary is much lower than that of their male peers. My hobbies are reading novels, engaging in community service, and listening to music.
